#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
customHeadersFooters
shapepar
tcolorbox
graphicboxes
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Why I Teach...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Michael Kumaresan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
\align block

\family sans
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Do not answer a fool according to his folly or you will be like him yourself.
 Answer a fool according to his folly, or he will be wise in his own eyes.'
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Taken at face value, the ancient Hebrew proverbs above appear to be a classic
 example of a silly contradiction; however, this could not be further from
 the truth.
 The sages who wrote the ancient Hebrew proverbs were not stupid men.
 The reason they put these proverbs together is because they wanted them
 read together.
 Together, the proverbs give a true picture of reality on how to discern
 a situation and to know when to correct a fool.
 In writing proverbs such as these, the ancient sages were grappling with
 the immense complexity of the world and urging their readers to engage
 in the same exercise of thinking deeply about the world and living well
 therein.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The perspective of the ancients often goes unappreciated by our modern sensibili
ties.
 We tend to believe in a random universe governed by random forces that
 can be perfectly explained by the laws of science.
 There is an unfortunate kind of utilitarianism to the way we live.
 The ancients, on the other hand, had a beautifully nuanced view of the
 world.
 They believed that the world had an underlying structure, and yet was mysteriou
s in many ways.
 To them there was a deeper meaning, beauty and truth to the universe, along
 with a complexity and mystery that sometimes cannot be explained.
 They placed immense value on the idea of wisdom and urged each other to
 engage in the task of pursuing wisdom.
 That is, a wise person was on a quest to discover the underlying structure
 in the world, and to learn how to navigate through the complexity and mystery
 that he would encounter in life.
 Though much can be said about how to gain wisdom, one key way to become
 a wise person is to be in a community of learners, with older, wiser mentors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As I reflect on my own (short) journey through life, I have found a lot
 of truth in the perspective of the sages of old.
 To be successful in the world one has to be able to live 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

paradoxically.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 That is, there are times when one has to embrace structure; and there are
 times when one has to embrace mystery.
 There are times when one has to be just; and there are times when one has
 to be compassionate.
 There are times when one has to speak; and there are times when one has
 to listen.
 There are times for undistracted work; and there are times for unhindered
 rest.
 There are times to be idealistic; and there are times to be pragmatic.
 To navigate the world well, one has to learn to live in the tension of
 what at first appear to be competing values, but in the end, complement
 and balance each other in lovely ways.
 Though there are many sources that have taught me these values and have
 influenced my growth in these areas, among the most important has been
 the education I received in my mid-teenage years.
 In particular, there were four teachers of mine (two mathematics teachers
 and two english teachers) whose lives, teaching and mentorship transformed
 me profoundly and made me a wiser and more balanced person.
 I am deeply grateful to Bob Arrigo, who showed me the beauty of deep thinking;
 to Monica Palekar, who instilled in me the discipline of work; to Natalie
 Farina, who taught me how to listen carefully; and to Sue Silver, who showed
 me how to speak and communicate clearly.
 I owe each of them a debt that cannot be repaid.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of the many inspiring moments in Bob Arrigo's class, there is one that stands
 out in particular.
 Bob's most well-known lesson of the year was his presentation of the proof
 of Euler's formula:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
e^{i\pi}+1=0
\]

\end_inset

This formula is considered by many mathematicians to be the most beautiful
 formula in mathematics, combining the five most famous numbers in all of
 mathematics in one succint statement.
 Moreover, Euler's formula has deep connections to many branches of pure
 and applied mathematics and its implications are far-reaching.
 Bob's engaging presentation of the technical details of the proof was masterful
; but what stays embedded in my mind was the moment when he had finished
 the proof and put down the chalk.
 At that moment there was a silence in the room.
 And suddenly the room burst into applause.
 But the applause wasn't for Bob - it was self-evident that he was the most
 outstanding teacher we had ever had.
 The applause was because we had seen something absolutely wondrous, delightful
 and true.
 Bob had managed to get himself out of the way and allowed us to see a beautiful
 and deep reality in mathematics.
 In that moment, he had shown us the reward for asking big questions.
 He had opened all of our minds to something we never thought could exist.
 For me personally, this was a life-changing moment.
 It felt for those few minutes that everything was right in the world -
 that there was a wonder, beauty, freedom, truth and elegance in mathematics
 that was immensely satisfying and that I needed to explore more.
 What I learned that day was the importance of being free to ask deep questions
 that require deep thought, and the potential reward one can receive in
 that pursuit.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But having a sense of wonder and wanting to explore cannot be the sole way
 to be successful in mathematics (or in life!).
 This is where Monica Palekar's teaching affected me deeply.
 It was in her class that I learned the importance of proof, rigor and organizat
ion.
 It was through her careful teaching that I learned about the laws of logic,
 how to make a coherent argument and how to write a mathematical proof.
 It was through her guidance that I learned to present my ideas in a meaningful
 and logical way.
 But the way in which Monica impacted me the most was not just through her
 teaching but through her life and example.
 What is so wonderful about Monica is that she lives in the same way that
 she teaches - with integrity, generosity, commitment, patience and discipline.
 She works hard and with excellence in all she does.
 It was in her classroom and through our relationship that I learned the
 importance of being diligent and disciplined in all my pursuits, and to
 hold these qualities in tension with the wonder and freedom I had learned
 from Bob.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Though my natural academic inclinations were in mathematics and science,
 it was two of my high school english teachers that had arguably the biggest
 impact on my growth as a person.
 In Natalie's Farina classroom, I found a place that completely transformed
 the way that I looked at the world.
 Any joy and delight I find in reading books today I owe to her teaching
 because she helped me to look beyond words on a page to see profound ideas
 about the world in those pages.
 It was in her classroom that I learned the importance of hearing what an
 author was communicating.
 I learned to resist the temptation of superimposing my own thoughts or
 interpretations on the text; but instead to listen well, to pause and reflect
 on what I was hearing before doing anything else.
 In Sue Silver's classroom, I found a teacher who gave me the confidence
 to move past my introversion and insecurities and learn to communicate
 in an effective way.
 If Natalie showed me the importance of listening well, it was Sue who showed
 me the importance of being able to speak well.
 She had an uncanny ability to make me uncomfortable; but she always had
 a way to push me and help me to move past the discomfort and really develop
 myself in ways I had never explored before.
 What I remember most fondly about being a student of theirs was the way
 in which they made themselves available to me outside of the classroom.
 I can recall many hours spent in their offices discussing literature, ideas
 and the world.
 In many ways, Natalie and Sue complemented each other perfectly.
 For instance, from Natalie I learned the importance of being pragmatic
 and realistic about life.
 And from Sue, I learned the importance of holding to idealism and convictions
 throughout life.
 In both teachers, I found more than educators - they were conversation
 partners, mentors and friends.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The few words I have written above cannot do justice to the many ways in
 which these individuals have impacted me.
 It would be an understatement to say that they each changed the course
 of my life in very profound ways.
 I am immensely grateful for the skillsets that they gave me; in fact, these
 have been tremendously useful to me in both my academic and working career
 before I came into teaching.
 However, I am even more grateful that they were the kind of eduators who
 were not content with just passing on specific skills or knowledge.
 They saw education as a means to develop the entire person - to make him
 a wiser and well-balanced citizen of the world.
 They each taught me to look at the deeper structures and beauties of the
 world and gave me the values and skills I needed to navigate the complexity
 of what I would face when I left school.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is only after years of teaching on my own that I have really been able
 to see the profound difference Bob, Monica, Natalie and Sue have made in
 my life.
 Through feedback from students and conversations with colleagues, it is
 clear to me that in many ways, Bob, Monica, Natalie and Sue are perpetually
 with me in the classroom.
 In my teaching career up to this point, I have striven to create the kind
 of community and relationship with my students both inside and outside
 the classroom that I enjoyed with my own teachers.
 And just as my teachers helped me to develop into a wise person who is
 ready to face the world, I have striven to do the same for my own students.
 So why do I teach? Such is my respect and admiration for the teachers that
 I had, that I can find no better way to honor them and carry on their legacy
 than to attempt a feeble impression of them by following in their footsteps.
 Bob, Monica, Natalie and Sue were so generous to me and served me so well
 as teachers that I feel a sense of obligation to do the same for others.
 It would be immensely selfish of me to not give back to others the kinds
 of opportunities that I had as a student.
 Teaching gives me the perfect way to assume that responsibility and carry
 on the legacy and community of learning that my teachers passed on to me.
 But more than out of obligation to my teachers, or out of service to my
 students, I teach because in teaching I find a unique sense of joy.
 When one truly enjoys something, it is not enough to hold on to it.
 True delight in a subject compels one to tell others about it.
 It is virtually impossible to find a person who loves a piece of music
 or a movie or a piece of literature who then refuses but tell others about
 it.
 The delight in the subject is not just about understanding, but about sharing
 that understanding with others.
 And this is also why I teach - because Bob, Monica, Natalie and Sue gave
 me a unique joy and love for mathematics, english and education.
 Eduation is so compelling and delightful to me that I cannot but share
 that with others.
 And therefore, I teach out of duty and delight - because I ought to, but
 also because I want to.
 And therein lies another wonderful paradox worth thinking about.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
