#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
customHeadersFooters
shapepar
tcolorbox
graphicboxes
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Why I Teach...(Part II)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Michael Kumaresan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
\align block

\family sans
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The job of an educator is to teach students to see vitality in themselves.'
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 -Joseph Campbell
\begin_inset VSpace bigskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
\align block

\family sans
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

I never teach my pupils; I only attempt to provide the conditions in which
 they can learn.'
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 -Albert Einstein
\begin_inset VSpace bigskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In my reflections three years ago, I answered the question of why I teach
 with the words: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

I teach out of duty and delight - because I ought to, but also because I
 want to.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 The first phrase made reference to the debt that I owed the teachers who
 taught me when I was a young man.
 The second phrase spoke to my own love for my subject and my desire to
 pass on the knowledge that was imparted to me to the young men and women
 who pass through my classroom.
 After reading through my reflections over the last few years and thinking
 about the changes that I have implemented in my philosophy and practice,
 I am still fully in agreement with what I wrote three years ago.
 I still believe strongly in the duty I have to teach; in the responsibility
 I have to pass on the mantle that was given to me as a student.
 I am also still as passionate as I have ever been about mathematics and
 I still find plenty of joy in sharing my delight of the subject with others.
 What I have noticed, however, about my statement from three years ago,
 is how my response to the question basically centers around me - the teacher.
 Now, there is nothing intrinsically wrong with this.
 The teacher must play an important role in the learning environment, and
 the classroom cannot function without a competent person managing it.
 However, where my perspective has changed and grown drastically over the
 last three years, has been in understanding more clearly the role that
 the student can play in the classroom.
 That is, I have come to appreciate much more what the classroom can look
 like when the student - and not necessarily the teacher - takes the central
 role in the learning.
 So, to my two words from three years ago - 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

duty
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

delight,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 I would like to add a third - 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

difference.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 I teach because of the difference and impact that good and appropriate
 student-centered teaching can have on a student when he or she is at the
 center of the learning.
 But I also teach because of the difference that this approach has on me
 as the teacher.
 Let me briefly consider each of these two thoughts in turn.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First, one aspect of my teaching philosophy which has become more clear
 over the last few years is the idea that it is what the learners 
\series bold
\shape italic
do
\series default
\shape default
 that matters.
 So often learners become passive recipients of lessons.
 But what I strive for instead in my classroom is to make students directly
 active in the learning process with the goal of having them reach the stage
 where they become their own teachers; where they can seek out optimal ways
 to learn new material and ideas; where they can seek resources to help
 them in learning; and where they can set appropriate and high-level goals
 for themselves.
 Over the last few years, I have seen how students need to be involved in
 determining success criteria; in setting higher expectations for the classroom;
 and in being open to experiences related to new ways of knowing and problem-sol
ving.
 This leads to their development as learners and in their ability to self-assess
, self-evaluate, self-monitor and self-learn.
 And a large part of them having this experience in the classroom relies
 on my own ability to remove myself from their way and create the right
 environment for them to become active learners.
 Among the strategies I have employed over the last few years with respect
 to this are promoting strong interactions in class, using a variety of
 tools and approaches, and displaying high levels of enthusiasm when teaching
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Though my remarks here are brief, please see my essays from last year and
 the year before for more details on pedagogical techniques I have used
 in the classroom.
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 Placing students at the center of the learning requires me as the teacher
 to see learning through the eyes of my students and then using that knowledge
 to engage them in learning that leads them to be successful and active
 learners.
 Over the last few years, I have grown in my appreciation for the need for
 this kind of teaching, and in some instances where I have managed to do
 this successfully, I have seen wonderful results in my students.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But second, and perhaps more importantly, having the student at the center
 of learning is not just beneficial for the student, but is also beneficial
 for me as the teacher.
 Over the last few years, I have seen how taking this approach has helped
 me to grow both professionally (in my knowledge and appreciation of the
 subject matter) and also as a person.
 Putting students at the forefront of the classroom has allowed them to
 showcase their many talents and abilities, and this in turn has given me
 new insights on the content that I am teaching and has made me an active
 learner in the classroom alongside my students.
 I have found that by developing the skill of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

getting myself out of the way
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 when learning is progressing towards the success criteria, I am not only
 helping the students grow in their confidence and abilities, but I (as
 the teacher) begin to see things from a new and fresh perspective.
 There is no better way for students to be inspired and motivated in the
 classroom than to see the ways in which they are helping to make their
 teacher a better learner.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thus, one of my main goals for my own professional growth in the future
 is to continue to develop the skill of being a strong student-centered
 teacher.
 One of the phrases that I have embraced from the Skillful Teacher course
 I attended a few years ago is the idea of the teacher being a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

warm demander.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 This requires something of the teacher (creating the right environment)
 and the student (doing what it takes to be successful).
 One of my life-long goals is to learn to find the right balance and symbiosis
 between these two aspects of teaching.
 I see no better way for me to develop this skill than to continue to work
 for many years in the environment in which I have been working over the
 last few years.
 My time at Scarsdale has been very formative and I can see in such a short
 period of time what an impact a strong community of colleagues and students
 can have on my own development as a teacher and person.
 I hope to continue to see more growth in my skills as a teacher by spending
 many more years in such an environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So why do I teach? Out of duty to those that came before me; out of delight
 for the subject matter; but also because of the difference good teaching
 makes in the lives of both my students and myself.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
