#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
customHeadersFooters
shapepar
tcolorbox
graphicboxes
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Knowing What to Teach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Michael Kumaresan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
\align block

\family sans
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

It is clear that the chief end of mathematical study must be to make the
 students think.'
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 - JW Young
\begin_inset VSpace bigskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since the fall of 2012, I have had the opportunity to teach a variety of
 courses ranging from Differential Equations to Mathematics for Elementary
 School Teachers to a diverse group of students across multiple institutions
 in the Greater New York area.
 There are few experiences which have brought me more joy than the experience
 of showing a student how mathematics is not merely the rote manipulation
 of symbols, but a deep expression of the rigor, beauty and harmony found
 in the world itself.
 Over the years, my teaching style has evolved as I have gained more experience,
 and I have been able to grow in my ability to communicate mathematics effective
ly through the feedback and evaluations I have received from advisors and
 colleagues.
 But perhaps the greatest source of insight with regards to helping others
 learn and understand mathematics has come from conversations with my students
 (both past and present) on the nature of mathematics and its place in the
 world.
 My reflections on these conversations and subjects have led me to a basic
 philosophical goal as a mathematics instructor - to effectively support
 my students' engagement in deep mathematical ideas and to encourage peer-to-pee
r collaboration among them so as to make them better and deeper thinkers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What then is my role as the instructor and what concrete steps do I take
 to achieve this end? Inside the classroom, I focus on incorporating three
 things into my teaching: 1.
 Creating interaction which emphasizes student thinking; 2.
 Teaching mathematics within a real-world context with a problem-centered
 approach; and 3.
 Teaching mathematics in historical context.
 Let me consider each of these in turn.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First, with regards to instructor-student interaction, I have seen a development
 in my teaching over the years where I have moved away from the traditional
 means of initiation and response between the instructor and the students
 and toward an emphasis on the use and development of student thinking.
 The former is often found in the traditional mathematics classroom: the
 instructor attempts to garner participation with prompts such as, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Does anyone have a question?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

How can we simplify this?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What is the inverse of this matrix?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 These questions lead to an interaction between the instructor and the student
 where the instructor initiates with the question, the student responds,
 and then the instructor determines whether the response is correct or incorrect.
 While this method can sometimes be useful, it fails to promote the deep
 engagement with the subject matter and collaboration between students which
 I believe makes mathematics education worthwhile.
 I now attempt (wherever I can, and to the best of my ability) to form my
 lecturing around helping students to share and deepen their thinking, as
 well as engage with the thinking of those around them.
 In teaching Introductory Linear Algebra, Differential Equations, and Calculus,
 I have learned several steps which I try to implement to achieve this.
 The first important step is to create a classroom environment in which
 students feel comfortable in expressing their thinking.
 This type of classroom atmosphere stems largely from expressing my own
 enthusiasm and joy for the subject.
 Showing enthusiasm and approachability goes a long way toward transforming
 a student's experience from dry and difficult to engaging and thought-provoking.
 However, I have found that this environment can also be created by prompting
 students in the right way.
 I have discovered that questions such as, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Can you expand more on that idea?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

I know you haven't finished the problem yet, but what was your initial thinking?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

We should not shy away from making mistakes - can you talk us through an
 initial approach you took that did not work?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 to be particularly helpful.
 These types of prompts show the students that there is an expectation for
 their ideas to be shared, even if they are incorrect.
 Often times their thinking is fuzzy and lacks rigor; however, my goal in
 engaging them in discussion is not to evaluate them immediately, but to
 encourage them to make their contribution.
 Following this, a second step is to help students engage with the ideas
 and thinking of their peers.
 I use questions such as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Do we agree with his idea or thinking?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Could someone re-express her argument in your own words?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Can you repeat that so the whole class can hear what you said?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 to move students in this direction.
 I have seen the benefits of these kinds of interactions often in the classroom.
 Sometimes, one student arrives at a different conclusion and this leads
 to debate about who is correct and who can justify their thinking more
 precisely.
 Other times, a misunderstanding surfaces and a discussion ensues on how
 to be more precise and careful in the way we are communicating.
 All of these outcomes are productive in teaching students how to think
 mathematically.
 The third and final step to follow the previous two is to assist students
 in deepening their thinking and to build on and extend their ideas more
 formally.
 This is where I see the role of the instructor as being key.
 Once discussion has occurred, it becomes mathematically productive when
 it is followed on by solid reasoning.
 Therefore, I see my role as one in which I press students for reasoning
 and justification for their ideas.
 Questions such as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

How can we know that this is correct?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Does this work all the time?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What is the connection to this other concept we were discussing?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Do we have to worry about this counterexample?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 have been helpful in getting students to really develop their ideas and
 think through how to justify them.
 This also allows me to introduce the importance of rigor and proof, and
 show students that fundamentally, mathematics is more than just symbolic
 computation and is about argumentation and deep thinking.
 And it is here that formal and conventional definitions can be introduced
 in such a way that the students are (in some sense) discovering them for
 themselves and actually doing mathematics on their own.
 I have found that creating classroom interactions with students on these
 three levels has helped me tremendously to achieve the goal of engaging
 my students with deep mathematical ideas in collaboration with each other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This leads me straight to my second point: in order to effectively create
 interactions of the kind mentioned above, I try to build my lectures around
 a particular problem or puzzle.
 Rather than simply present a technique to students and reinforce it with
 plenty of examples, I begin lectures (wherever possible) by presenting
 them with a motivating problem - or series of problems - which we need
 to solve together as a class.
 This allows room for discussion and interaction over what the right approach
 and technique could be to achieve that end.
 The goal, then, of the lecture is to discover an appropriate technique
 or Theorem for the particular problem and justify its use through proof.
 In my experience, students find problems which come from a real-world context
 to be particularly engaging, and I attempt to use examples from a wide
 variety of fields including engineering, science, architecture, economics,
 business and others.
 A great benefit of using a problem-centered approach is that it often leads
 to very interesting follow-up questions from students.
 It is here that I can often point to other sub-disciplines of mathematics
 or science to pique the interest of the more curious students.
 Many have often followed up to learn more about this, and I have enjoyed
 fruitful discussion on a wide variety of topics with them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, in addition to teaching mathematics within a real-world context,
 I also attempt to provide as much historical context to my students as
 I can.
 Connecting mathematical ideas to to their place in history is not simply
 good pedagogy, but it also gives me (as the instructor) an opportunity
 to discuss broader ideas and themes about the people who developed mathematics.
 Many mathematicians were accomplished in other fields (philosophy, history,
 art, etc), and I have found that students enjoy understanding and discussing
 the connections mathematics has to other disciplines and the unique contributio
n it brings to thinking about and understanding the world.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A particular example of my use of these three teaching principles can be
 found in my presentation of Calculus and its foundations.
 I use the problem of finding the orbit of planet around the sun as the
 motivating problem the class has to solve.
 Deriving the equations from first principles allows for discussion on the
 role of mathematics in physics and modeling, and the importance of making
 good and accurate assumptions.
 Solving for a particular solution of the problem leads to the introduction
 of the derivative and integral, where students can engage with deep ideas
 about the rate of change of functions and the accumulation of quantities
 over time intervals.
 The discussion about some of the intricacies in calculus computations is
 always interesting for my students, and allows me to engage them in discussion
 about interesting results beyond the scope of the course (such as Lebesgue
 integration).
 Finally, discussing the life of Isaac Newton and the historical context
 for his examination of the problem always piques the interest of my students.
 Through this example and many others, I have found that teaching around
 these three principles has helped me to engage my students in mathematical
 thinking and collaboration with the ultimate goal of helping them to be
 strong thinkers and communicators.
 In my conversations with students over the years, these are the constant
 elements of my classes that they have pointed out to me which have been
 the most enjoyable and fruitful for them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of course, having as many principles and techniques as one would desire
 is ultimately useless if one does not understand his or her hearers.
 The most basic analysis begins with simply knowing who is in the room and
 how best to communicate to the group.
 Therefore, knowing my students is vital to the work I hope to accomplish
 in the classroom.
 Inside the classroom, as I have mentioned above, I devote much of my energy
 to creating an open environment for learning and developing community.
 It is often in this environment that I can have side conversations with
 students or even engage the class as a whole and learn about their strengths
 weaknesses, desires and ambitions.
 I have found that students respond well to a more informal and open classroom
 and, with some time, are quick to open up and share with me and with their
 peers.
 In addition to this, I use surveys and forms throughout the duration of
 my class to gather data from students.
 Often these forms include questions where students can tell me more about
 their interests outside of school.
 This information has been extremely helpful for me in engaging students
 in conversations that are not purely academic in nature.
 As the rapport with my students grows stronger, I am able to bring that
 into the classroom and tailor my teaching to meet their specific needs.
 Outside of the classroom, I use office hours and conversations outside
 of the classroom to get to know my students on a deeper level.
 I consider my office hours to be an extension of my classroom, with whiteboards
 on the wall and various materials in the room so that students can use
 that space to work together and collaborate together.
 Even though most students come to office hours with questions which are
 specific to class content, I have had the opportunity to talk to many students
 during office hours on a variety of topics and offer them advice from my
 own life experience.
 These moments have been vital to helping me understand and relate to my
 students and have helped me craft my teaching to make it relevant and interesti
ng for them.
 It would be an understatement for me to say that office hours are the best
 moments in my work as a teacher.
 I have found as much joy in building relationships with my students as
 I have in helping them grow in their knowledge of mathematics.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
